README.md, before:

# Data Scientist

#### Technical Skills: Python (incl. scipy, numpy, pandas, jupyter notebook), Mathematica, Linux, Mac, GitHub, C++, LaTex

## Education
- Habilitation, Physics | The University of Graz (_June 2021_)  		
- Ph.D., Physics | The University of Bonn (_August 2007_)								       		
- M.Sc., Physics	| The University Mumbai (_May 2006_)	 			        		

## Work Experience
**Junior group leader @ University of Graz, Austria (_September 2020 - Present_)**
- Third party funding of approx 1M Euro
- Independent project initiation and development
- Lead a team of PhD, master, bachelor students
- Taught master level courses
- Numerical, analytical modelling of dark matter and associated data visualisation
- Development of data analsis pipelines
- Keynote speaker at international conferences

**Elise-Richter Fellow @ Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria (_September 2017 - August 2020_)**
- Third party funding of approx 390K Euro
- Statistical analysis, data visualisation, quantitative comparison with predictions of theoretical models of dark matter
- Lead developer of software tool SModelS
- Supervision, mentoring of five master students

**Postdoctoral Research Fellow @ Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria (_September 2017 - August 2020_)**
- Conducted research on dark matter and neutrinos
- Organised workshops and conferences
- Supervised master students
- Presented research at conferences and seminars
- Participated in international CERN Large Hadron Collider collaboration
  
**Postdoctoral Research Fellow @ CNRS, Grenoble, France (_September 2011 - August 2024_)**
- Conducted research on dark matter
- Organised seminars
- Supervised master students
- Presented research at conferences and seminars
- Lead developer of public data analysis code [SMoldeS](https://smodels.github.io/) written in **Python**

## Data Science Projects
### Taylor Swift music analysis and content recommendation system
#### Data analysis of Taylor Swift's music (EDA) 
- [Documentation and code](./Taylor_Swift_dataanalysis.html)
- Initial assessment of Taylor Swift spotify music records
- Aims:
  * To undestand the nature of data and perform statistical analysis to gain insights into correlations
  * To create basic visualisations and summaries in form of histograms, scatter plots and pandas summary dataframes

#### Data analysis of Taylor Swift's music  (Finale)
- [Documentation and code](./T_Swift_Finale.html)
- Interactive plots for data visualisation and clustering analysis for song suggestions 
- Aims:
  * To understand the behaviour of widgets and correspondingly use it to create interactive plots 
  * To perform elementary clustering exercises via KMeans algorithm in order to predict songs the user might want to listen to given their choice of song. 

### PCOS diagnosis 

## Publications
### Search for long-lived particles decaying to a pair of muons in proton-proton collisions at $$\sqrt{s} = 13$$ TeV
[Publication](https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP05(2023)228)

Performed numerical simulations and created visualisations using **Python** for search optimisation. This led to more refined definitions of search parameters and impacted fundamental search and data collection design. 

### Theory, phenomenology, and experimental avenues for dark showers: a Snowmass 2021 report
[Publication](https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-022-11048-8)

**Co-ordinated** a team of 50+ scientists to collect, organise and analyse the field of specific dark matter models. **Created and edited** final report design. Contributed to the report by bringing in fundamental understanding of these dark matter models and provided new direction to the field. 

### Constraining new physics with SModelS version 2
[Publication](https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP08(2022)068) 

Designed a new and improved version of public code [SMoldeS](https://smodels.github.io/) written in **Python**. The code accounts for over hundres new physics searches and accelerates the process of understanding the nature of dark matter.

Commit message:

updating website with new project notes

README.md, after:

# Data Scientist

#### Technical Skills: Python (incl. scipy, numpy, pandas, jupyter notebook), Mathematica, Linux, Mac, GitHub, C++, LaTex

## Education
- Habilitation, Physics | The University of Graz (_June 2021_)  		
- Ph.D., Physics | The University of Bonn (_August 2007_)								       		
- M.Sc., Physics	| The University Mumbai (_May 2006_)	 			        		

## Work Experience
**Junior group leader @ University of Graz, Austria (_September 2020 - Present_)**
- Third party funding of approx 1M Euro
- Independent project initiation and development
- Lead a team of PhD, master, bachelor students
- Taught master level courses
- Numerical, analytical modelling of dark matter and associated data visualisation
- Development of data analsis pipelines
- Keynote speaker at international conferences

**Elise-Richter Fellow @ Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria (_September 2017 - August 2020_)**
- Third party funding of approx 390K Euro
- Statistical analysis, data visualisation, quantitative comparison with predictions of theoretical models of dark matter
- Lead developer of software tool SModelS
- Supervision, mentoring of five master students

**Postdoctoral Research Fellow @ Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria (_September 2017 - August 2020_)**
- Conducted research on dark matter and neutrinos
- Organised workshops and conferences
- Supervised master students
- Presented research at conferences and seminars
- Participated in international CERN Large Hadron Collider collaboration
  
**Postdoctoral Research Fellow @ CNRS, Grenoble, France (_September 2011 - August 2024_)**
- Conducted research on dark matter
- Organised seminars
- Supervised master students
- Presented research at conferences and seminars
- Lead developer of public data analysis code [SMoldeS](https://smodels.github.io/) written in **Python**

## Data Science Projects
### Taylor Swift music analysis and content recommendation system
#### Data analysis of Taylor Swift's music (EDA) 
- [Documentation and code](./projects/Taylor_Swift_dataanalysis.html)
- Initial assessment of Taylor Swift spotify music records
- Aims:
  * To undestand the nature of data and perform statistical analysis to gain insights into correlations
  * To create basic visualisations and summaries in form of histograms, scatter plots and pandas summary dataframes

#### Data analysis of Taylor Swift's music  (Finale)
- [Documentation and code](./projects/T_Swift_Finale.html)
- Interactive plots for data visualisation and clustering analysis for song suggestions 
- Aims:
  * To understand the behaviour of widgets and correspondingly use it to create interactive plots 
  * To perform elementary clustering exercises via KMeans algorithm in order to predict songs the user might want to listen to given their choice of song. 

### PCOS diagnosis
- [Documentation and code](./projects/T_Swift_Finale.html)
- Interactive plots for data visualisation
- Aims: 
 * To understand correlation analysis 
 * To work with binary data
 * To create a first version of PCOS prediction system using random forrest classifier

## Publications
### Search for long-lived particles decaying to a pair of muons in proton-proton collisions at $$\sqrt{s} = 13$$ TeV
[Publication](https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP05(2023)228)

Performed numerical simulations and created visualisations using **Python** for search optimisation. This led to more refined definitions of search parameters and impacted fundamental search and data collection design. 

### Theory, phenomenology, and experimental avenues for dark showers: a Snowmass 2021 report
[Publication](https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-022-11048-8)

**Co-ordinated** a team of 50+ scientists to collect, organise and analyse the field of specific dark matter models. **Created and edited** final report design. Contributed to the report by bringing in fundamental understanding of these dark matter models and provided new direction to the field. 

### Constraining new physics with SModelS version 2
[Publication](https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP08(2022)068) 

Designed a new and improved version of public code [SMoldeS](https://smodels.github.io/) written in **Python**. The code accounts for over hundres new physics searches and accelerates the process of understanding the nature of dark matter.
